Create CONTRIBUTING.md (#20)
qualabs/video-headline: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Video Headline - Contributing

## Table of Contents

- [Running the application in local environment](#running-the-application-in-local-environment)
- [How to build the player](#how-to-build-the-player)
- [How to build the docker](#how-to-build-the-docker)
- [How to run the tests](#how-to-run-the-tests)
- [How to use the linters](#how-to-use-the-linters)

### Running the application in local environment

To set up the project locally, follow the instructions provided below.

#### Prerequisites

- AWS Account: Necessary for hosting and delivering video content.
- Docker and Docker compose: Video Headline runs inside Docker containers, so it is necessary to have Docker and Docker Compose installed.
- Yarn and Node.js(v10): Required to deploy AWS configurations and build the playerReact component.
- Python: Necessary for running Django and other Python-based tools.
- AWS CLI: Useful for configuring and managing AWS services from the command line.

#### Create .env file

> Create a .env file at the root of the project with all the variables defined in the .env-example file and their respective values.

Reviewer: I think some .env variables in env-example aren't clear enought where to get them, like:
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
Also I couldn't find what exactly APM is 
APM_SERVICE_NAME=
APM_SECRET_TOKEN=
APM_SERVER_URL=
It would be great to explain what is the puropose of this.

Reviewer 2: i think we should explain all of them, and their default values in case user did not change anything in regards to config (for example, DATABASE_USER will always be "qualabs" if developer does not change anything in docker-commands/db_init/init.sh)

#### Set up and running the application

Follow these steps to set up and run the application locally:

> 1. Create a symbolic link to the appropriate Docker Compose file (`docker-compose.dev.yml` or `docker-compose.prod.yml`) for your environment using `ln -s docker-compose.dev.yml docker-compose.yml`.

Reviewer: maybe is better to say environment using the following command` ln -s docker-compose.dev.yml docker-compose.yml`.

2. Run `docker-compose up`.
3. Run `docker exec -it video-hub bash` to access the video-hub container.
4. Create a superuser for admin access running `python manage.py createsuperuser`.
5. Go to `http://localhost:8010/admin` and log in with the superuser credentials.

### How to build the player

In Videoheadline we use the playerReact component to play the videos. This component is built using React and it is compiled to a CSS and JS file that are used in the Django template that renders the player.
If you need to make changes to the player, you need to follow the steps below to build the player and test it in Videoheadline.

#### Steps to create a new version of the Videoheadline playerReact:

1. Make the changes and compile using npm run build.
2. Copy the compiled CSS and JS to player/static/player/css and player/static/player/js, respectively.
3. Delete the old CSS and JS files in player/static/player/css and player/static/player/js.
4. In the player/templates/player/index.html template, change the names of the CSS and JS files to which the template points.
5. Test in Videoheadline to ensure that the player is working correctly.

#### Important Notes:

> When modifying the player, ensure that it continues working in IE 11 on Windows 10 and 8.1. It doesn´t work on Windows 7 with IE 11.

Reviewer: Are we supposed to keep this? IE and Win 7 are very old.

#### Setting Up ESLint for Linting React in Visual Studio Code

Follow the steps below to set up ESLint for linting React code in Visual Studio Code:

1. Prerequisites:

- Navigate to the `web` folder of the project.

2. Installation:

- Run the command `npm install` to install necessary packages.

3. Configuring Visual Studio Code:

- Ensure you have the following extensions installed:

<img src="docs/eslint_extension.png" alt="drawing" width="400"/>
<img src="docs/prettier_eslint_extension.png" alt="drawing" width="400"/>

- Accessing settings:
  - To open the command palette in Visual Studio Code, press Ctrl + Shift + P and select:

<img src="docs/vsc_settings.png" alt="drawing" width="400"/>

- Append the following configurations:
  ```json
  "editor.codeActionsOnSave": { "source.fixAll.eslint": true },
  "editor.formatOnSave": true,
  "[javascriptreact]": {
  	"editor.defaultFormatter": "rvest.vs-code-prettier-eslint"
    },
    "[json]": {
  	"editor.defaultFormatter": "rvest.vs-code-prettier-eslint"
  }
  ```

With these configurations, your React code will be automatically linted and formatted.

> #### Setting Up Flake8 and Black for Linting and Formatting Python in Visual Studio Code

Reviewer: These changes weren't implemented yet, maybe is for the best to remove this title.

# Video Headline - Contributing

## Table of Contents

- [Running the application in local environment](#running-the-application-in-local-environment)
- [How to build the player](#how-to-build-the-player)
- [How to run the tests](#how-to-run-the-tests)
- [How to use the linters](#how-to-use-the-linters)

### Running the application in local environment

To set up the project locally, follow the instructions provided below.

#### Prerequisites

- AWS Account: Necessary for hosting and delivering video content.
- Docker and Docker compose: Video Headline runs inside Docker containers, so it is necessary to have Docker and Docker Compose installed.
- Yarn and Node.js(v10): Required to deploy AWS configurations and build the playerReact component.
- Python: Necessary for running Django and other Python-based tools.
- AWS CLI: Useful for configuring and managing AWS services from the command line.

#### AWS Configuration

> Video Headline requires some IAM roles and permissiones. To automate the configuration, there's CDK code to create a Stack with all the requirements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Video Headline requires some IAM roles and permissions. To automate the configuration, there's CDK code to create a Stack with all the requirements.
```

To deploy this stack, follow this steps:

1. Navigate to the infrastructure directory.
2. Run the command: `yarn cdk deploy AwsConfigurationStack`.

This deployment will set up:

- Api User with permissions for:
  - S3
  - Sns
  - MediaConvert
  - MediaLive
  - Cloudfront
  - Cloudwatch
- Media Convert Role with permissions for:
  - Api Gateway
  - S3
- Media Live Role with permissions for:
  - MediaLive
  - Cloudwatch

#### Set up the application in local environment

> To set up the project locally, follow the instructions provided below. For AWS deployment, refer to the README within the Infrastructure folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To set up the project locally, follow the instructions provided below. If you want to deploy Video Headline in an AWS environment, refer to the [General README](https://github.com/qualabs/video-headline#readme)
```

> **Environment Variables:** Add `AWS_MEDIA_CONVERT_ROLE` and `AWS_MEDIA_LIVE_ROLE` with respective ARNs to your Docker Compose file based on your environment (`docker-compose.dev.yml` or `docker-compose.prod.yml`).

Reviewer 2: About this line

1. .env-example already contains AWS_MEDIA_CONVERT_ROLE and AWS_MEDIA_LIVE_ROLE, so i dont think we need to explicitly add it to the docker compose file
2. This is better suited for the section below `(Create .env file)`

#### Create .env file

Create a .env file at the root of the project with all the variables defined in the .env-example file and their respective values.

#### Running the application

Follow these steps to set up and run the application locally:

1. Create a symbolic link to the appropriate Docker Compose file (`docker-compose.dev.yml` or `docker-compose.prod.yml`) for your environment using the following command `ln -s docker-compose.dev.yml docker-compose.yml`.
2. Run `docker-compose up`.
3. Run `docker exec -it video-hub bash` to access the video-hub container.

> 4. Create a superuser for admin access running `python manage.py createsuperuser`.

Reviewer 2: arent we going to automate this process? in that case, we could specify this is optional and that the developer can create another super user if they so choose

> 5. Go to `http://localhost:8010/admin` and log in with the superuser credentials.

Reviewer 2: what are the superuser credentials? where can a developer find them?

### How to build the player

> In Videoheadline we use the playerReact component to play the videos. This component is built using React and it is compiled to a CSS and JS file that are used in the Django template that renders the player.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Videoheadline we use the playerReact component for video playback. This component is built using React and it is compiled to a CSS and JS file that are used in the Django template that renders the player.
```

If you need to make changes to the player, you need to follow the steps below to build the player and test it in Videoheadline.

#### Steps to create a new version of the Videoheadline playerReact:

> 1. Make the changes and compile using npm run build.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Make the changes and compile using `npm run build`.
```

2. Copy the compiled CSS and JS to player/static/player/css and player/static/player/js, respectively.

> 3. Delete the old CSS and JS files in player/static/player/css and player/static/player/js.

Reviewer 2: switch order, first delete and then copy

4. In the player/templates/player/index.html template, change the names of the CSS and JS files to which the template points.
5. Test in Videoheadline to ensure that the player is working correctly.

### How to run the tests

To run the tests, follow the steps below:

1. Once the docker is running, run the command: `docker exec -it video-hub bash` to access the video-hub container.
2. Run the command: `python manage.py test` to run the tests.

### How to use the linters

> If you want to contribute to the project, it is important to use the linters to ensure that the code is consistent and follows the best practices. The linter used in the project is ESLint for JavaScript. In addition, we use Prettier to format the JavaScript code.

Reviewer 2: Lets add a note that says something like "we plan to also include a Python linter in the future"
